and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business
growth show i'm your host sam dunning
co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and today i'm joined by eden badani
idioms the founder
over at green light copy she helps sas
tech and direct to consumer brands drive
crazy good growth with customer
magnetic conversion copy for ads landing
pages
and websites eden are very warm welcome
to the show how you doing hi
hi good thanks how you doing yeah we're
good on this side eden really appreciate
you joining us
and excited for this one because we're
gonna be talking all about
why we need to use our customers own
words in our copy
in our content across our ads our
landing pages all our website and
marketing collateral
um and how we can sell with that without
being too salesy
so looking forward to jumping in i want
to throw you at the deep end
um because i think this is going to be
quite controversial um
so first and foremost why shouldn't we
go with what we think is good content or
good copy
or what our ceo or managing director
thinks is great copy why should we use
our customer's own words
okay well good question and this is all
a very solid question there sam
so the reason is because there is often
a huge gap
between what we want to say as a company
or the marketing messages that you want
to get across and what the audience
actually needs to hear in order to
convert
so if you're actually thinking about it
like i look at it like a venn diagram so
on one side you have the messages that
you want to share
about the product or the services or the
company that you're running and then the
message is what's most important for the
customer
whether it's the whether it's specific
feature whether it's a pain point that
it's solving
uh you know any any other information
about the product and actually there's
only a very small sliver
of where those messages actually overlap
and that's what you need to focus
on if you want you know your website
your landing pages your ads to convert
because
you know your customer doesn't need to
know everything that we know about
everything that we know you know about
the company about the product that we
have
they only need to know as much
information as they need that's going to
actually
motivate them to to want to sign up to
want to buy now or to want to download
the ebook or whatever it is uh that
you're offering them
got it got it and and why is it so you
mentioned a good point there that the
customer doesn't necessarily need to
know everything about
um our own product which we've talked
about kind of in similar interviews
where we've talked about the psychology
of selling
and dealing with your customers and
ultimately whilst is
marketing as sales professionals we
might know the a to z
of everything our product or our service
does in terms of all the features
but like you quite like you said the
customer probably doesn't care unless
it's
tailored specifically to to fix their
pain or make their life better
um so just to hone in on this a bit more
i mean
for people that are tuning in right now
and thinking
yeah but i know so much i know
everything about my product and i know
what's great
why do we really need to put our
customers first and put them at the
forefront of things instead of just
going with what we think is going to
work well
or what we've done in the past that
might have had results with
yeah because your users these days you
know they expect more they know that the
power is in their hand that's why for
example the product led growth movement
is so strong
in sas now for offering a free trial or
a freemium plan permanently
giving users uh the ability to actually
try
to actually use the product to actually
find the value in the product before
they're actually required to purchase
something it's the same like we used to
hop into a retail store
pick up the sunnies you know you can try
them on see which shades uh which style
suits you best
see if it fits you before you actually
make the decision to purchase and so
that's what your copy is actually doing
it's helping show the customers
that your product is the right fit for
where they're are in that
uh where they're at in their lives what
they're looking to achieve in terms of
the transformation
that they're looking to achieve in their
own lives as a result of purchasing
said product or signing up for a free
trial
um and so this is so the cop is helping
connect
just those two dots for them and i
personally i also used to work in sales
so i
and i used to make that classic mistake
so in the beginning i used to
think i had these products and they're
so incredible i used to
overload the product demos with so much
information
and the customer would just get so
overwhelmed it was too much to absorb
all at once you know there's there you
can draw a line in the sand as to how
much value you can show
about the product up front and letting
them discover the incredible value of
the product themselves once they
actually you know unbox it or
start using the software or whatever it
is so you know you only need to get them
hot you only need to get them to that
halfway point because if you're
delivering a great experience on the
other side they're going to discover
that for themselves and that's what
makes it all so exciting that's what
gives them a
really consistent really incredible
customer experience you're giving them
enough
information you're not you're not
deliberately withholding information
have a bit that's not what i mean
it's you're actually just strategically
showing them the pieces the most crucial
pieces of information what matters to
them
the most and then sort of dripping out
you know
leaving that like that trail of
breadcrumbs to actually get them to
convert and then they experience the
true full value of the product and then
it's just
that mind-blowing experience for them on
the other side
yep and and that part what matters to
them i think is
is going to be really important in terms
of what we discussed today
so in terms of actually being able to
put this into practice what do we need
to think about
what do we need to consider and perhaps
we can go through a step by step
how can we go about
asking our customers for this this
information
how can we make sure that we actually go
about in a right way
instead of perhaps just looking at past
case studies or things like that is
there a
specific strategy that we need to adopt
when when it comes to
using our customer's own words in our
copy eden
yeah absolutely so in terms of that so
we're really looking at
getting us getting you know as close to
the end customers as possible
so that's going to involve um conducting
you know speaking with them on the phone
speaking with them over zoom
um conducting surveys not so not just
you know normal nps did you like this
product you know what colors do you like
kind of things it's actually asking them
kind of interesting qualitative
questions like what were
you know uh where did you experience any
difficulties while
uh while signing up or was there
anything that
um was there anything that maybe
made you feel that this was not a right
a smart decision or
to try and figure out what what their
objections might
what their objections are what they
struggled with what was going on in
their lives when they started seeking
out um
a product or a service like this so to
try and connect the dots
um again really between what they were
looking for what's happening in their
own world because you know we know
what's happening in our world
but what's happening in our customers
world is you know
is incredible it's like um it's like
it's the same idea when you're putting
when you're thinking of ad placement on
different platforms if people are on
linkedin or people are on facebook
they're not on facebook to see ads
they're not on linkedin to see
ads they're there to engage with
interesting content so you need to first
and foremost make sure your ads or
content are interesting to your audience
you can't just say
download this ebook people are on there
people aren't on linkedin to download
ebooks they're there to engage with
content that's interesting so you need
to give them a reason why this ebook is
interesting or why they should
um read this and doing those customers
so doing customer interviews doing
customer surveys
just speaking with the customer and
trying to understand
what's uh what problems are going on in
their world what things they're
struggling with
what's their kind of outlook on life and
so see how your product fits
into that multiple that huge complex of
their own lives and not how it fits into
the context of our lives as this is what
we're selling
got it okay that's starting to make
sense and is there a best practice that
we need to adopt when it comes to this
even i.e
if we're looking to phone or looking to
set up zoom sessions whatever video
conference we want to use with our
existing customers
do we need to kind of say look um to our
marketing manager our team can you send
me all our 100 all our thousand
customers and i'm gonna work through
those or is it
a case of we just speak to our five best
or is there a kind of strategy that we
can use
in terms of making sure we're not doing
tons and tons of work but at the same
time we're getting enough intel
at this stage that we can then move
forwards with
yeah absolutely so and you don't need to
speak with all the best customers you
don't need to speak with all of the the
churn
you know customers they have churned
it's a good idea to get usually between
five to ten customer um interviews or
contacts with customers that
really like the product but you would
also like to speak to a couple of people
that
um that might have signed up for a free
trial or might have signed up for a
sample and then churned
right and then well some people that who
were previous customers but are no
longer
customers right you want to get that
full spectrum
because then that's not just going to
help inform your copy that's actually
going to inform product that's going to
afford marketing that's going to give
you a lot of golden nuggets for other
different areas of the business
but it's going to give you that that
full that full perspective
of how your product or how your service
is perceived by your customers and so
then you can actually put measures into
place
through the copy you know you can plant
seeds of information so that people will
so to help mitigate those objections or
to help make
make things that were unclear clear even
before they get to the even before they
buy or they
sign up yeah that's that's really
interesting so
some of this it sounds like goes beyond
just giving us
useful bits and pieces golden nuggets
for our own copy
our own content but like you said it can
form all other aspects
of our company in terms of sales
customer churn
and like you quite um rightly mentioned
their customers that perhaps dropped off
um and learning why that happened um
what what issue there was along the way
perhaps it was something you didn't even
think about
and um it's it's going to help you with
a useful piece of information that you
perhaps need to update your website
perhaps you need to improve your
customer service or how you manage
clients
that's really interesting okay cool and
is there um
in terms of these these interviews is
this something that customers are
typically happy to do
if you from your experience even or from
your clients experience when you
because i'm sure a few people tuning in
gonna feel a bit weird like should i
really ask my customer 15 to 20 minute
zoom is it something they're generally
open to do we normally need to
say look i'll do this and i'll get you a
meal in return i'll get you i'll get you
a coffee or
is it a bit weird or is it is it quite
easy from your experience
it depends how you ask it depends how
you frame how you frame the ask
um if you're framing it as something
that um is beneficial
to you or if you're framing it as
something that you need their help
or if you're framing it as something
that it's actually going to be
beneficial to them
as well in some aspects so for for
example if it's a customer that has
churned you know
your your feedback is going to be really
helpful in making you know
helping us provide better experiences
for future customers
you can always sweeten the deal with uh
with a little incentive if
it's an amazon gift card or like you
said a virtual coffee or anything like
that that can always help
um another thing that works as well as a
dough is if you make a charitable
donation
so if you know 15 20 minutes of the time
you make a donation of 10 to 15
to a charity of their choice something
like that so that's so
there's a lot of different ways that you
can uh sweeten the deal but i think how
you frame the ask
is what's most important a lot of people
say we'd like to you know
you get sent surveys from companies and
they say we want your feedback
fill in this you know fill out this 10
minute survey
and you know i don't know many people
are going to actually take that 10
minutes out of the time
you know out of their day to actually do
that so if you say hi we're really new
you know we really need your help we
appreciate your feedback we like to hear
input because we're look we want to do
abc
and as a valued customer you know tell
we'd really
appreciate telling hearing what you
think got it got it yeah
i completely agree i mean in terms of a
survey unless there was
quite a hefty incentive like you say
some kind of voucher or coffee or
whatever it may be
the sometimes you get these forms after
you've signed up to a software service
or some kind of tool and it's like
30 40 questions it's like there's no way
i'm going to sign up i'm going to fill
all this out it's going to take me about
20 minutes and
what's in it for me i mean all you're
getting is all my data to help you but
there's literally zero in it for me so i
think the personal approach makes a lot
more sense
i'll give you an example one one one
subject line we've found is really
effective usually for these emails it's
just you say can i can i ask a favor
or can i get so can you help me just
just
you know to actually show this is
actually something that they're looking
for you're looking for help with and
that you would really appreciate
their feedback and that's if the ask
feels like it's one-to-one it's not
one-to-many
okay got it cool so let's pretend we've
we've found some of our best customers
perhaps we found a few that churned
perhaps we found a few that dropped off
um we've set up the interview with them
are there any is there anything we else
that we need to bear in mind when we do
go ahead and jump on the call and ask
them questions before we
get to the next step which i guess is
taking bits and pieces for the copy
yeah absolutely so two things one ask
open-ended questions
and two let them talk just let them
talk let them finish what they're saying
and don't don't jump in you know often
we feel like we have questions that we
want to ask or we have an agenda
we don't want them to feel like we have
an agenda in place you don't want the
customer to feel uncomfortable at all
what
you know at any point in time but the
only time you want them to feel slightly
uncomfortable is when you give them that
space
to talk so say you've asked a question
you know they've rambled on for a minute
you can always ask at the you know when
they're finished rambling
anything else or is there anything else
you'd like to add
can you clarify that point and actually
start digging deeper
into what they've said because sometimes
people will give these kind of off the
cuff
answers but it's what happens when they
keep
trying to fill that silence when they
keep trying to fill those gaps is where
you can find those golden insights is
where they actually start to
um dig out these really emotional you
know dig out these emotional benefits or
these pains and problems that was they
were struggling with you could find some
really
really incredible things that way yeah
yeah yeah i completely agree we started
doing something similar recently
um with some of our existing clients
that have been with us six months 12
years
mainly on the the seo front and
sometimes you get some really
interesting stuff from my experience
anyway that you never expected
so i essentially ran this survey hoping
for a brilliant case study from this
customer
whilst it wasn't bad they were happy
with their progress they are happy with
the results we're getting on the seo
what he did say was something really
useful he said sam um
there's a few things i think we should
set up more regular calls which i
thought that's
that's fine we can kind of work together
a bit closer and it saves me emailing
back and forth most days
no problem um he also said on on the
month end reports could be typically
when we do a campaign we send out a
report that says this is all work we've
done this is the results we've achieved
he said look they're weighty detailed
business owners like me just want a one
pager
that says this is the key results this
is the return you've got
me um and this is what we're gonna do
next month just a couple bullet points i
was like
fine that makes my life a lot easier too
and that's really helpful because i'm
sure a lot of other business owners want
want that so just by setting up these
calls you often get
way more intel and perhaps you're even
hoping for
and it might help your business in other
ways to help similar customers just like
them i don't know if you've ever
found something like that yeah
absolutely um we did with a client that
i worked with
last year actually we found that they
were
um we found that they were struck they
aimed at enterprise they were they were
aiming for enterprise customers but they
were struggling to meet
um they were struggling to meet some of
the the heavy demands that their
enterprise customers were asking of them
because their team was still quite small
so what we actually did so the customers
were
some of them were feeling frustrated
when we spoke to them in the interviews
because they felt like the company
wasn't
able to to do all these tiny minute
customizations that these enterprise
customers were
demanding of them at the same time you
know the
the team themselves they were feeling
exhausted because they were struggling
to keep up with these demands and they
felt that the
the balance of the co you know what they
were being paid versus what the
enterprise customers were demanding was
a bit uh the balance was not there
so what we actually did is we looked at
introducing a lower tier
plan a freemium version where people can
go in play around with the product have
a look
test it themselves and then when they
want to they can actually upgrade as
well to something that's fully
self-service
and then if they want the full-on
customization then they can upgrade to
something else completely different so
we actually introduced
um different options for people to use
so that they don't have so they can
customize the little bit that they want
but
then if they really want the full the
full-blown package they understand what
they're getting into
um so that that was just something that
where the customer interviews actually
helped inform the product development
and that was something we saw was really
incredible great stuff good to hear so
moving this forward we have carried out
our customer interviews perhaps we've
written
detailed notes perhaps we've recorded
all the sessions so we've got the
content there we've got the material
how do we move this from perhaps hours
of footage
perhaps tons of scribbled down notes
into
sharp crisp copy that's going to sell
for us
and perhaps we can talk about different
channels whether that's an advert
whether that's for a landing page or a
website copy perhaps we can do a few
different options how do we turn that
from
our scribble down notes our hours of
footage into kind of
short sharp killer copy yes so the
further the first thing you do is first
you
um don't sit there just re-analyzing all
the hours of video footage by yourself
actually go and get traffic get turned
transcripts get huma you know human done
transcripts of everything so that you
can
read through them quickly and cover
every you can cover
uh you know hours of footage um in a
very short period of time
and what you're going to be doing is
you're going to be looking for those
really golden
qualitative statements those things that
people are saying that really
stuck out uh that really stick out when
it's expressing and you'll
be looking for different groups of
excuse me
different groups of content so whether
it's something about a pain or problem
they were talking about
um whether it's about the transformation
so actually we're looking when you're
looking through
the transcripts you'll actually be
analyzing the text as you go along and
so what you'll be doing is you'll
get a separate google doc you get what i
usually do as a spreadsheet
set up in google sheets or something
like that and you actually just start
copying and pasting
the chunks of information that that
really stick out the most so
what you're looking at when they talk
about the pain or problem when they talk
about the transformation that your
product or service has enabled them to
achieve
in their lives or in their business when
they talk about um what they struggled
with
during onboarding or what they might um
what was
difficult for them during sign up um or
any of these
or what they like what they don't like
about the product you want to take all
these pieces of information
organ you know really chop out the
sentences it doesn't matter who said it
um inter it doesn't well it matters in
terms of whether the customer was a
happy customer or a customer that's
churned
but you're organizing that information
by these different groups so that when
you come to sit down
all you really need to do is you're
taking you know your marketing framework
or copywriting framework and starting to
organize
these golden pieces of information in a
framework and then kind of
put it putting it all together like a
puzzle got it
okay now and that's a great starting
point and i know often when i'm speaking
to
clients or if i'm having one of my rants
or rambles on linkedin
um for example and you'll probably know
better about this even than i will
um so one thing that frustrates me a lot
is when i jump on a website
a home page or someone's landing page
and
all they're talking about is how good
they are or how good their service
is or how good their company is um so
for example if you go on the home page
and it says we're award winning or the
best in practice for this
or we've just been nominated for five
awards or we've just got seed funding
it's like
i couldn't care less ultimately as a as
a prospect or myself if i'm
jumping on your website i want to know
what you do how you can help me
and how to get in touch so if i don't
know that exactly what you do how you
can fix my problem or make my life
better
and it's not really easy for me to give
you a call or email or get in touch or
purchase if it's e-commerce then
ultimately you've lost me and you've
probably lost a lot of potential clients
just because you've rambled on about how
great you are rather than how you can
help me as a prospect um
so does that relate into this or is kind
of working these
points that we've talked about earlier
in terms of identifying perhaps the
problem they came with you
the problem the customer came to you
with how you help them overcome that
what it's been like working with you and
so on um
or is it a bit of a final practice in
terms of weaving that into your website
or landing pages
so i think it really depends on the
stage of awareness that your prospect is
it
well it depends on two things the
prospect stage of awareness when they're
landing when they're arriving on your
website or your landing page
and it's their level of sophistication
so for example if you know if you're
if you have a software product that's
for academics who are extreme you know
who are extremely
um who extremely uh technically uh
literate
um then you'll need to use slightly more
sophisticated language or you can talk
more about
the solution first and how it's um and
how it's helping them and
let you you can um you know for example
so if they're aware of other solutions
and this audience is sophisticated then
you can talk
more directly about your solution and
how it's positioned to better serve them
than other solutions existing in the
market
whereas if you have um if you have a dtc
product and um and your audience is
is unaware or just or somewhat pain
aware like they're aware that they're
struggling with something but they
haven't even started looking for a
solution for it you're going to lead in
with talking about that there's a pain
or problem that they have and then
position the product or position your
solution against that
so finding the finding the from the
information that you've gathered in the
customer interviews
that helps you map out your messages
on the website depending so you can
answer those questions who are you
why should i care you know what are you
selling and how you can help me so you
can answer you know all those questions
on that page
using the customer's own language and so
it's not coming we can help you because
we've won five awards no we can help you
because
because this product has been designed
in this specific way these specific
features to solve these specific pain
points
and that that's a great point as well
understanding where your audience is at
so i suppose if you're selling something
that's perhaps software perhaps it's
extremely technical and perhaps you only
ever deal with
i don't know chief technical officers um
or heads of i.t
then the chances are the text the copy
you're using on this website doesn't
need to be plain and simple you probably
can use more jargon
if the customer's using it right whereas
the other reference you made whether
it's perhaps direct to consumer it might
be a little bit
more simple is that right yes absolutely
so that and that's one of the
that's one of the things you'll discover
as well in the customer interview so if
you
have a handle on who your ideal
customers are and the
customers that you're interviewing do
kind of reflect um your
core buyer personas um so
you can direct if they use those words
when they're speaking to you
use the jargon if they use the
complicated uh check
when they speak with you then you can
weave those words in at first
the general rule though of you know of
all copy online is that it needs to be
uh needs to be easily readable so they
usually recommend about a six to eight
between a five to eighth grade um
reading level simply because
people scan a lot online we scan quickly
we browse through there's so many
messages you know we're reading
10 blog posts or we're looking at 20
different you know social media
platforms at the same time so people are
scanning
you know they're scrolling really
quickly so you need to make sure your
message is easily understood
first of all if that if being easily
understood includes the
jargon that your customers use when
they're talking with you and when
they're talking amongst themselves
that's fine
um you know but if it's um if they don't
use that
if they talk to themselves in layman's
terms or
you know in very in very simplistic
language then you're going to want to
mirror that as well on the sides of the
cop so as well
what you'll find in the customer
interviews it informs kind of the tone
of
the general tone of voice and kind of
the level of sophistication as well
yeah and that that makes perfect sense
um and this could probably be a whole
podcast in itself but
just to give the audience a few more
takeaways in terms of how we can
leverage all this intel we've got from
our customers
are there any best practices when it
comes to perhaps
short form copy so whether that is
perhaps a google ads perhaps a facebook
ad
or perhaps a short sharp email um
and then perhaps we can go on to maybe a
few best practices for either website
home page or landing page
so the queue so to make so to get across
a really powerful message in a very
short amount of time
it's really great to go back to two of
the oldest copywriting formulas that we
have out there
just to help you structure the message
most succinctly as possible and so those
two
uh pass prime pain agitation solution
and ada so it's attention uh interest
desire action
so if you're struggling if you feel like
whatever you're writing is too wordy or
you know that it's too long
you really need to cut out the fluff
just this will help you condense
all of that into really three into two
to three kind of sentences
that really get across what's the you
know what's the product
how it's helping them and why they
should uh why they should take an action
gotcha gotcha and in terms of putting
together something a bit more long form
um do we have more flexibility so
whether that was a our homepage our
website landing page or
product page whatever it may be can we
then just kind of flash out
the kind of problem or headline to start
with can we then put a bit more meat on
the bones with the kind of value
proposition and then have call to
actions or is there a bit more
to it that we need to consider um there
is a bit more
to it that you need to consider there's
a lot um there's a lot of nuances
especially on a home page if you know if
your homepage is acting like a sign post
like you want people to land and then
you know take left to the about ask take
right to see all products
things like that um if it's acting like
a signpost with multiple different call
competing calls to action or if it in
itself is acting
like a landing page so you have one core
product or one core tier and you're
looking for them to
to have enough information by the time
they get to the bottom of the home page
to actually make a decision whether they
want to
buy or to buy or sign up just based on
the home page itself
so far so that first the structure of
the home page and what you want to
achieve
on the home page that's going to help
direct what um kind of what messages and
what copy needs to go in there but at
the same time
the headline is probably the last thing
that you should write
should look at making sure you've
covered all those core sections on the
page like you mentioned
um you know what problems you're solving
why customers come to you
what the pro what the product is and how
it helps them you know why they should
listen to you
you know who you are what you do and why
should i care those core messages need
to be addressed on the page and then
once you've
once you've addressed those then you can
go and look and see headlines that fit
all those different sections at the same
time and that that's probably
a nice way to wrap up is there any um
is there any way to make sure that your
your headline itself is striking is it
just a case of what you said there you'd
in making sure it wraps up
all of the points that we've gone
through in interviews and all the
content we've put into the rest of
whether it's perhaps a landing page or a
long-form piece of content and making
sure that's encapsulated in one line
or are there is there a more simple way
to do it
um or is it is it a bit of everything
striking a balance
well there's so well the simplest way to
do a headline and what we find is
actually usually really effective
is making sure that the headline you
know the purpose of the headline is
really just to get people to read the
line after it and the
purpose of the line after is get to
people to you know scroll below the fold
and keep
reading so every line of copy is meant
to get people to read the next line
so in terms of writing a powerful
headline it doesn't have to be
this blanket statement and so when i'm
when i'm saying when um
when you have a headline that
encapsulates the information on the page
it's not like a headline like a title of
an essay
you know you need something that's
that's compelling enough that it's going
to make them want to read the next line
and it's going to make them actually
want to
scroll below the fold and learn more so
you're going to give a hint as to what
you know you're going to tell part of
the story but not all of the story
so at least hint make reference to the
product you know
what it is and what you're doing or how
you're helping them but without giving
it all away that they actually have to
scroll below the folder
to learn more and to actually fill in
those blanks yeah yeah yeah so to keep
the viewer or the reader thirsty for
more it sounds like
yes absolutely got it brilliant eden
well with that i want to wrap things up
and really want to thank you very much
for coming on the show
really enjoyed it and thanks for sharing
some best practices when it comes to
creating copy and and for anyone that
does want to learn more about yourself
or work yourself what is the best way
and we can learn from you or get in
touch
yeah best way would just be to you know
to like go over to follow or connect
with me on linkedin
cool we'll do and we'll put all of those
um links to
yourself and your website in the show
notes over at businessgrowth.marketing
and with that thanks once again really
appreciate you coming on eden
no worries thanks for having me cheers
and if you enjoyed the show be sure to
hit subscribe to business growth show
where the heck you get your podcast from
we interview business dealers each and
every week to provide actionable tips
across marketing
across sales all to help you grow your
business and with that
we'll catch you on the next episode